FIND(1)                                                 FIND(1)





NAME
       find - search for files in a directory hierarchy

SYNOPSIS
       find [-H] [-L] [-P] [path...] [expression]

DESCRIPTION
       This manual page documents the GNU version of find.  GNU
       find searches the directory tree rooted  at  each  given
       file  name  by evaluating the given expression from left
       to right, according to the rules of precedence (see sec-
       tion  OPERATORS),  until  the outcome is known (the left
       hand side is false for and operations, true for or),  at
       which point find moves on to the next file name.

       If  you  are using find in an environment where security
       is important (for example if you are using it  to  seach
       directories  that  are  writable  by  other  users), you
       should read the "Security Considerations" chapter of the
       findutils  documentation,  which is called Finding Files
       and comes with findutils.   That document also  includes
       a  lot more detail and discussion than this manual page,
       so you may find it a more useful source of  information.

OPTIONS
       The `-H', `-L' and `-P' options control the treatment of
       symbolic links.  Command-line arguments following  these
       are  taken  to  be  names  of files or directories to be
       examined, up to the first argument that begins with `-',
       `(',  `)', `,', or `!'.  That argument and any following
       arguments are taken to be the expression describing what
       is  to be searched for.  If no paths are given, the cur-
       rent directory is used.  If no expression is given,  the
       expression  `-print'  is  used  (but you should probably
       consider using `-print0' instead, anyway).

       This  manual  page  talks  about  `options'  within  the
       expression list.  These options control the behaviour of
       find but are specified immediately after the  last  path
       name.  The three `real' options `-H', `-L' and `-P' must
       appear before the first path name, if at all.

       -P     Never follow symbolic links.  This is the default
              behaviour.  When find examines or prints informa-
              tion a file, and the file is a symbolic link, the
              information  used shall be taken from the proper-
              ties of the symbolic link itself.


       -L     Follow symbolic links.   When  find  examines  or
              prints  information  about files, the information
              used shall be taken from the  properties  of  the
              file  to which the link points, not from the link
              itself (unless it is a broken  symbolic  link  or
              find  is  unable to examine the file to which the
              link  points).   Use  of  this   option   implies
              -noleaf.  If you later use the -P option, -noleaf
              will still be in effect.  If -L is in effect  and
              find  discovers a symbolic link to a subdirectory
              during its search, the subdirectory pointed to by
              the symbolic link will be searched.

              When the -L option is in effect, the -type predi-
              cate will always match against the  type  of  the
              file  that  a symbolic link points to rather than
              the link itself (unless the symbolic link is bro-
              ken).   Using  -L  causes  the -lname and -ilname
              predicates always to return false.


       -H     Do not follow symbolic links, except  while  pro-
              cessing  the  command  line arguments.  When find
              examines or prints information about  files,  the
              information  used shall be taken from the proper-
              ties of the  symbolic  link  itself.    The  only
              exception to this behaviour is when a file speci-
              fied on the command line is a symbolic link,  and
              the  link  can  be resolved.  For that situation,
              the information used is taken from  whatever  the
              link  points  to (that is, the link is followed).
              The information about the link itself is used  as
              a fallback if the file pointed to by the symbolic
              link cannot be examined.  If -H is in effect  and
              one of the paths specified on the command line is
              a symbolic link to a directory, the  contents  of
              that directory will be examined (though of course
              -maxdepth 0 would prevent this).

       If more than one of -H, -L and  -P  is  specified,  each
       overrides the others; the last one appearing on the com-
       mand line takes effect.  Since it is the default, the -P
       option  should  be  considered  to  be  in effect unless
       either -H or -L is specified.

       GNU find frequently stats files during the processing of
       the command line itself, before any searching has begun.
       These options also affect how those arguments  are  pro-
       cessed.   Specifically, there are a number of tests that
       compare files listed on the command line against a  file
       we  are  currently  considering.  In each case, the file
       specified on the command line will  have  been  examined
       and some of its properties will have been saved.  If the
       named file is in fact a symbolic link, and the -P option
       is  in  effect (or if neither -H nor -L were specified),
       the information used for the comparison  will  be  taken
       from the properties of the symbolic link.  Otherwise, it
       will be taken from the properties of the file  the  link
       points  to.  If find cannot follow the link (for example
       because it  has  insufficient  privileges  or  the  link
       points to a nonexistent file) the properties of the link
       itself will be used.

       When the -H or -L options are in  effect,  any  symbolic
       links  listed as the argument of -newer will be derefer-
       enced, and the timestamp will be taken from the file  to
       which  the symbolic link points.  The same consideration
       applies to -anewer and -cnewer.

       The -follow option has a similar effect to -L, though it
       takes  effect at the point where it appears (that is, if
       -L is not  used  but  -follow  is,  any  symbolic  links
       appearing  after  -follow  on  the  command line will be
       dereferenced, and those before it will not).



EXPRESSIONS
       The expression is made up of options (which affect over-
       all  operation  rather than the processing of a specific
       file, and always return true),  tests  (which  return  a
       true  or  false  value),  and  actions  (which have side
       effects and return a true or false value), all separated
       by  operators.   -and  is  assumed where the operator is
       omitted.  If the expression contains  no  actions  other
       than  -prune, -print is performed on all files for which
       the expression is true.

   OPTIONS
       All options always return true.  Except for -follow  and
       -daystart,  they  always  take effect, rather than being
       processed only when their place  in  the  expression  is
       reached.   Therefore,  for  clarity, it is best to place
       them at the beginning of the expression.  A  warning  is
       issued if you don't do this.

       -daystart
              Measure  times (for -amin, -atime, -cmin, -ctime,
              -mmin, and -mtime) from the  beginning  of  today
              rather  than from 24 hours ago.  This option only
              affects tests which appear later on  the  command
              line.

       -depth Process  each  directory's  contents  before  the
              directory itself.

       -d     A synonym  for  -depth,  for  compatibility  with
              FreeBSD, NetBSD, MacOS X and OpenBSD.

       -follow
              Deprecated;  use the -L option instead.  Derefer-
              ence symbolic links.   Implies  -noleaf.   Unless
              the -H or -L option has been specified, the posi-
              tion of the -follow option changes the  behaviour
              of  the -newer predicate; any files listed as the
              argument of -newer will be dereferenced  if  they
              are   symbolic  links.   The  same  consideration
              applies to -anewer and -cnewer.   Similarly,  the
              -type  predicate  will  always  match against the
              type of the file that a symbolic link  points  to
              rather  than  the  link  itself.   Using  -follow
              causes the -lname and -ilname  predicates  always
              to return false.

       -help, --help
              Print a summary of the command-line usage of find
              and exit.

       -ignore_readdir_race
              Normally, find will emit an error message when it
              fails  to  stat  a file.  If you give this option
              and a file is deleted between the time find reads
              the  name  of the file from the directory and the
              time it tries to stat the file, no error  message
              will  be issued.    This also applies to files or
              directories whose names are given on the  command
              line.   This  option takes effect at the time the
              command line is read, which means that you cannot
              search  one  part  of  the  filesystem  with this
              option on and part of it with this option off (if
              you  need  to do that, you will need to issue two
              find commands instead, one with  the  option  and
              one without it).

       -maxdepth levels
              Descend  at  most levels (a non-negative integer)
              levels of  directories  below  the  command  line
              arguments.   `-maxdepth  0'  means only apply the
              tests and actions to the command line  arguments.

       -mindepth levels
              Do  not apply any tests or actions at levels less
              than levels (a non-negative integer).  `-mindepth
              1'  means  process  all  files except the command
              line arguments.

       -mount Don't descend directories on  other  filesystems.
              An  alternate  name  for -xdev, for compatibility
              with some other versions of find.

       -noignore_readdir_race
              Turns off the effect of -ignore_readdir_race.

       -noleaf
              Do not optimize by assuming that directories con-
              tain  2 fewer subdirectories than their hard link
              count.  This  option  is  needed  when  searching
              filesystems  that  do  not follow the Unix direc-
              tory-link convention, such as  CD-ROM  or  MS-DOS
              filesystems  or  AFS  volume  mount points.  Each
              directory on a  normal  Unix  filesystem  has  at
              least  2 hard links: its name and its `.'  entry.
              Additionally, its subdirectories  (if  any)  each
              have  a  `..'   entry  linked  to that directory.
              When find is examining a directory, after it  has
              statted  2  fewer  subdirectories than the direc-
              tory's link count, it knows that the rest of  the
              entries  in  the  directory  are  non-directories
              (`leaf' files in the directory  tree).   If  only
              the files' names need to be examined, there is no
              need to  stat  them;  this  gives  a  significant
              increase in search speed.

       -version, --version
              Print the find version number and exit.

       -warn, -nowarn
              Turn  warning messages on or off.  These warnings
              apply only to the command line usage, not to  any
              conditions  that  find  might  encounter  when it
              searches directories.  The default behaviour cor-
              responds to -warn if standard input is a tty, and
              to -nowarn otherwise.

       -xdev  Don't descend directories on other filesystems.


   TESTS
       Numeric arguments can be specified as

       +n     for greater than n,

       -n     for less than n,

       n      for exactly n.

       -amin n
              File was last accessed n minutes ago.

       -anewer file
              File was last accessed more  recently  than  file
              was modified.  If file is a symbolic link and the
              -H option or the -L  option  is  in  effect,  the
              access  time  of  the file it points to is always
              used.

       -atime n
              File was last accessed n*24 hours ago.  When find
              figures out how many 24-hour preiods ago the file
              was  last  accessed,  any  fractional   part   is
              ignored,  so  to  match  -atime +1, a file has to
              have been modified at least two days ago.

       -cmin n
              File's status was last changed n minutes ago.

       -cnewer file
              File's status was last changed more recently than
              file  was  modified.   If file is a symbolic link
              and the -H option or the -L option is in  effect,
              the  status-change  time of the file it points to
              is always used.


       -ctime n
              File's status was last changed  n*24  hours  ago.
              See  the  comments  for  -atime to understand how
              rounding affects the interpretation of file  sta-
              tus change times.

       -empty File  is  empty and is either a regular file or a
              directory.

       -false Always false.

       -fstype type
              File is on a filesystem of type type.  The  valid
              filesystem types vary among different versions of
              Unix; an incomplete list of filesystem types that
              are  accepted  on some version of Unix or another
              is: ufs, 4.2, 4.3, nfs,  tmp,  mfs,  S51K,  S52K.
              You  can use -printf with the %F directive to see
              the types of your filesystems.

       -gid n File's numeric group ID is n.

       -group gname
              File belongs to group  gname  (numeric  group  ID
              allowed).

       -ilname pattern
              Like  -lname,  but the match is case insensitive.
              If the -L option or  the  -follow  option  is  in
              effect,  this  test returns false unless the sym-
              bolic link is broken.

       -iname pattern
              Like -name, but the match  is  case  insensitive.
              For  example,  the patterns `fo*' and `F??' match
              the file names `Foo', `FOO', `foo',  `fOo',  etc.
              In  these  patterns, unlike filename expansion by
              the shell, an initial '.' can be matched by  '*'.
              That  is,  find  -name  *bar  will match the file
              `.foobar'.


       -inum n
              File has inode number n.  It is  normally  easier
              to use the -samefile test instead.

       -ipath pattern
              Behaves  in  the  same  way as -iwholename.  This
              option is deprecated, so please do not use it.

       -iregex pattern
              Like -regex, but the match is case insensitive.

       -iwholename pattern
              Like -wholename, but the match is  case  insensi-
              tive.

       -links n
              File has n links.

       -lname pattern
              File  is  a  symbolic  link  whose contents match
              shell pattern pattern.  The metacharacters do not
              treat  `/' or `.' specially.  If the -L option or
              the  -follow  option  is  in  effect,  this  test
              returns false unless the symbolic link is broken.

       -mmin n
              File's data was last modified n minutes ago.

       -mtime n
              File's data was last  modified  n*24  hours  ago.
              See  the  comments  for  -atime to understand how
              rounding affects the interpretation of file modi-
              fication times.

       -name pattern
              Base  of  file  name  (the  path with the leading
              directories removed) matches shell  pattern  pat-
              tern.   The  metacharacters  (`*', `?', and `[]')
              match a `.' at the start of the base  name  (this
              is a change in findutils-4.2.2; see section STAN-
              DARDS CONFORMANCE below).  To ignore a  directory
              and  the files under it, use -prune; see an exam-
              ple in the description of -wholename.  Braces are
              not recognised as being special, despite the fact
              that some shells including Bash imbue braces with
              a  special  meaning in shell patterns.  The file-
              name matching is performed with the  use  of  the
              fnmatch(3) library function.

       -newer file
              File  was  modified  more recently than file.  If
              file is a symbolic link and the -H option or  the
              -L  option is in effect, the modification time of
              the file it points to is always used.

       -nouser
              No user corresponds to file's numeric user ID.

       -nogroup
              No group corresponds to file's numeric group  ID.

       -path pattern
              See  -wholename.    The  predicate  -path is also
              supported by HP-UX find.

       -perm mode
              File's permission bits are exactly mode (octal or
              symbolic).   Since an exact match is required, if
              you want to use this form for symbolic modes, you
              may have to specify a rather complex mode string.
              For example '-perm g=w'  will  only  match  files
              which  have  mode  0020  (that is, ones for which
              group write permission  is  the  only  permission
              set).   It  is  more likely that you will want to
              use the '+' or  '-'  forms,  for  example  '-perm
              -g=w',  which  matches  any file with group write
              permission.  See the EXAMPLES  section  for  some
              illustrative examples.

       -perm -mode
              All  of  the permission bits mode are set for the
              file.  Symbolic modes are accepted in this  form,
              and  this  is usually the way in which would want
              to use them.  You must specify 'u', 'g' or 'o' if
              you  use a symbolic mode.   See the EXAMPLES sec-
              tion for some illustrative examples.

       -perm +mode
              Any of the permission bits mode are set  for  the
              file.   Symbolic modes are accepted in this form.
              You must specify 'u', 'g' or 'o'  if  you  use  a
              symbolic mode.  See the EXAMPLES section for some
              illustrative examples.

       -regex pattern
              File name  matches  regular  expression  pattern.
              This  is a match on the whole path, not a search.
              For example, to match a  file  named  `./fubar3',
              you  can  use  the regular expression `.*bar.' or
              `.*b.*3', but not `f.*r3'.  The  regular  expres-
              sions  understood  by find follow the conventions
              for the re_match system  library  function  where
              this  is present (i.e. on systems using the GNU C
              Library).  On other systems,  the  implementation
              within  Gnulib  is  used; by default, Gnulib pro-
              vides ``basic'' regular expressions.

       -samefile name
              File refers to the same inode as name.   When  -L
              is in effect, this can include symbolic links.

       -size n[cwbkMG]
              File  uses  n units of space.  The following suf-
              fixes can be used:

              `b'    for 512-byte blocks (this is  the  default
                     if no suffix is used)

              `c'    for bytes

              `w'    for two-byte words

              `k'    for Kilobytes (units of 1024 bytes)

              `M'    for Megabytes (units of 1048576 bytes)

              `G'    for Gigabytes (units of 1073741824 bytes)

              The  size  does not count indirect blocks, but it
              does count blocks in sparse files  that  are  not
              actually  allocated.   Bear in mind that the `%k'
              and `%b'  format  specifiers  of  -printf  handle
              sparse  files differently.  The `b' suffix always
              denotes 512-byte  blocks  and  never  1  Kilobyte
              blocks,  which  is  different to the behaviour of
              -ls.


       -true  Always true.

       -type c
              File is of type c:

              b      block (buffered) special

              c      character (unbuffered) special

              d      directory

              p      named pipe (FIFO)

              f      regular file

              l      symbolic link (never true if the -L option
                     or the -follow option is in effect, unless
                     the symbolic link is broken).

              s      socket

              D      door (Solaris)

       -uid n File's numeric user ID is n.

       -used n
              File was last accessed n days  after  its  status
              was last changed.

       -user uname
              File  is  owned  by  user  uname (numeric user ID
              allowed).

       -wholename pattern
              File name matches  shell  pattern  pattern.   The
              metacharacters do not treat `/' or `.' specially;
              so, for example,
                        find . -wholename './sr*sc'
              will  print  an  entry  for  a  directory  called
              './src/misc'  (if one exists).  To ignore a whole
              directory tree, use -prune rather  than  checking
              every file in the tree.  For example, to skip the
              directory `src/emacs' and all files and  directo-
              ries  under  it, and print the names of the other
              files found, do something like this:
                        find . -wholename './src/emacs'  -prune
                        -o -print

       -xtype c
              The  same  as -type unless the file is a symbolic
              link.  For symbolic links: if the -H or -P option
              was  specified,  true  if the file is a link to a
              file of type c; if the -L option has been  given,
              true  if  c is `l'.  In other words, for symbolic
              links, -xtype checks the type of  the  file  that
              -type does not check.


   ACTIONS
       -delete
              Delete  files; true if removal succeeded.  If the
              removal failed, an error message is issued.


       -exec command ;
              Execute command; true if 0  status  is  returned.
              All  following  arguments to find are taken to be
              arguments to the command until an  argument  con-
              sisting  of  `;' is encountered.  The string `{}'
              is replaced by the current file name  being  pro-
              cessed  everywhere  it occurs in the arguments to
              the command, not just in arguments  where  it  is
              alone,  as  in  some  versions  of find.  Both of
              these constructions  might  need  to  be  escaped
              (with  a  `\')  or  quoted  to  protect them from
              expansion by the shell.  See the EXAMPLES section
              for  examples  of  the use of the `-exec' option.
              The  specified  command  is  run  once  for  each
              matched  file.   The  command  is executed in the
              starting directory.   There are unavoidable secu-
              rity   problems  surrounding  use  of  the  -exec
              option;  you  should  use  the  -execdir   option
              instead.


       -exec command {} +
              This  variant of the -exec option runs the speci-
              fied command on the selected files, but the  com-
              mand  line  is  built  by appending each selected
              file name at the end; the total number of invoca-
              tions  of  the command will be much less than the
              number of matched files.   The  command  line  is
              built  in much the same way that xargs builds its
              command lines.  Only  one  instance  of  '{}'  is
              allowed  within the command.  The command is exe-
              cuted in the starting directory.


       -execdir command ;

       -execdir command {} +
              Like -exec, but the specified command is run from
              the  subdirectory  containing  the  matched file,
              which is not normally the directory in which  you
              started find.  This a much more secure method for
              invoking commands, as it avoids  race  conditions
              during  resolution  of  the  paths to the matched
              files.  As with the -exec option, the '+' form of
              -execdir  will  build  a  command line to process
              more than one matched file, but any given invoca-
              tion  of  command will only list files that exist
              in  the  same  subdirectory.   If  you  use  this
              option,  you must ensure that your $PATH environ-
              ment variable  does  not  reference  the  current
              directory;  otherwise,  an  attacker  can run any
              commands they like by leaving  an  appropriately-
              named  file  in a directory in which you will run
              -execdir.


       -fls file
              True; like -ls but write to  file  like  -fprint.
              The  output  file  is always created, even if the
              predicate is never matched.

       -fprint file
              True; print the full file name  into  file  file.
              If  file  does  not exist when find is run, it is
              created; if it does exist, it is truncated.   The
              file  names  ``/dev/stdout''  and ``/dev/stderr''
              are handled specially; they refer to the standard
              output  and  standard error output, respectively.
              The output file is always created,  even  if  the
              predicate is never matched.

       -fprint0 file
              True;   like  -print0  but  write  to  file  like
              -fprint.  The output file is always created, even
              if the predicate is never matched.

       -fprintf file format
              True;   like  -printf  but  write  to  file  like
              -fprint.  The output file is always created, even
              if the predicate is never matched.

       -ok command ;
              Like  -exec  but ask the user first (on the stan-
              dard input); if the response does not start  with
              `y'  or  `Y',  do not run the command, and return
              false.

       -print True; print the full file name  on  the  standard
              output,  followed by a newline.   If you are pip-
              ing the output of find into another  program  and
              there  is the faintest possibility that the files
              which you are searching for might contain a  new-
              line,  then  you  should seriously consider using
              the `-print0' option instead of `-print'.

       -okdir command ;
              Like -execdir but ask  the  user  first  (on  the
              standard  input);  if the response does not start
              with `y' or `Y', do  not  run  the  command,  and
              return false.

       -print0
              True;  print  the  full file name on the standard
              output, followed by a null character (instead  of
              the  newline character that `-print' uses).  This
              allows file names that contain newlines or  other
              types  of white space to be correctly interpreted
              by programs that process the find  output.   This
              option corresponds to the `-0' option of xargs.

       -printf format
              True; print format on the standard output, inter-
              preting `\' escapes and  `%'  directives.   Field
              widths  and  precisions  can be specified as with
              the `printf' C function.  Please note  that  many
              of  the  fields are printed as %s rather than %d,
              and this may mean that flags don't  work  as  you
              might  expect.  This also means that the `-' flag
              does work (it forces fields to be  left-aligned).
              Unlike  -print, -printf does not add a newline at
              the end of the string.  The  escapes  and  direc-
              tives are:

              \a     Alarm bell.

              \b     Backspace.

              \c     Stop printing from this format immediately
                     and flush the output.

              \f     Form feed.

              \n     Newline.

              \r     Carriage return.

              \t     Horizontal tab.

              \v     Vertical tab.

              \      ASCII NUL.

              \\     A literal backslash (`\').

              \NNN   The character  whose  ASCII  code  is  NNN
                     (octal).

              A  `\'  character followed by any other character
              is treated as an ordinary character, so they both
              are printed.

              %%     A literal percent sign.

              %a     File's  last  access  time  in  the format
                     returned by the C `ctime' function.

              %Ak    File's last  access  time  in  the  format
                     specified  by  k, which is either `@' or a
                     directive for the C  `strftime'  function.
                     The  possible  values  for  k  are  listed
                     below; some of them might not be available
                     on  all  systems,  due  to  differences in
                     `strftime' between systems.

                      @      seconds since Jan. 1, 1970,  00:00
                             GMT.

                     Time fields:

                      H      hour (00..23)

                      I      hour (01..12)

                      k      hour ( 0..23)

                      l      hour ( 1..12)

                      M      minute (00..59)

                      p      locale's AM or PM

                      r      time, 12-hour (hh:mm:ss [AP]M)

                      S      second (00..61)

                      T      time, 24-hour (hh:mm:ss)

                      +      Date  and  time, separated by '+',
                             for example `2004-04-28+22:22:05'.
                             The  time  is given in the current
                             timezone (which may be affected by
                             setting  the  TZ environment vari-
                             able).  This is a GNU extension.

                      X      locale's    time    representation
                             (H:M:S)

                      Z      time  zone (e.g., EDT), or nothing
                             if no time zone is determinable

                     Date fields:

                      a      locale's abbreviated weekday  name
                             (Sun..Sat)

                      A      locale's  full weekday name, vari-
                             able length (Sunday..Saturday)

                      b      locale's  abbreviated  month  name
                             (Jan..Dec)

                      B      locale's full month name, variable
                             length (January..December)

                      c      locale's date and time (Sat Nov 04
                             12:02:33 EST 1989)

                      d      day of month (01..31)

                      D      date (mm/dd/yy)

                      h      same as b

                      j      day of year (001..366)

                      m      month (01..12)

                      U      week number of year with Sunday as
                             first day of week (00..53)

                      w      day of week (0..6)

                      W      week number of year with Monday as
                             first day of week (00..53)

                      x      locale's    date    representation
                             (mm/dd/yy)

                      y      last two digits of year (00..99)

                      Y      year (1970...)

              %b     File's size in  512-byte  blocks  (rounded
                     up).

              %c     File's last status change time in the for-
                     mat returned by the C `ctime' function.

              %Ck    File's last status change time in the for-
                     mat  specified  by k, which is the same as
                     for %A.

              %d     File's depth  in  the  directory  tree;  0
                     means the file is a command line argument.

              %D     The device number on which the file exists
                     (the st_dev field of struct stat), in dec-
                     imal.

              %f     File's name with any  leading  directories
                     removed (only the last element).

              %F     Type  of  the  filesystem  the file is on;
                     this value can be used for -fstype.

              %g     File's group name, or numeric group ID  if
                     the group has no name.

              %G     File's numeric group ID.

              %h     Leading  directories  of  file's name (all
                     but the last element).  If the  file  name
                     contains  no  slashes  (since it is in the
                     current  directory)   the   %h   specifier
                     expands to ".".

              %H     Command line argument under which file was
                     found.

              %i     File's inode number (in decimal).

              %k     The amount of disk  space  used  for  this
                     file  in  1K blocks (rounded up).  This is
                     different from %s/1024 if the  file  is  a
                     sparse file.

              %l     Object  of  symbolic link (empty string if
                     file is not a symbolic link).

              %m     File's permission bits (in  octal).   This
                     option   uses  the  'traditional'  numbers
                     which most Unix implementations  use,  but
                     if  your particular implementation uses an
                     unusual  ordering  of  octal   permissions
                     bits,  you  will  see a difference between
                     the actual value of the  file's  mode  and
                     the output of %m.   Normally you will want
                     to have a leading zero on this number, and
                     to  do this, you should use the # flag (as
                     in, for example, '%#m').

              %n     Number of hard links to file.

              %p     File's name.

              %P     File's name with the name of  the  command
                     line  argument  under  which  it was found
                     removed.

              %s     File's size in bytes.

              %t     File's last modification time in the  for-
                     mat returned by the C `ctime' function.

              %Tk    File's  last modification time in the for-
                     mat specified by k, which is the  same  as
                     for %A.

              %u     File's  user  name,  or numeric user ID if
                     the user has no name.

              %U     File's numeric user ID.

              %y     File's type (like  in  ls  -l),  U=unknown
                     type (shouldn't happen)

              %Y     File's  type  (like  %y), plus follow sym-
                     links: L=loop, N=nonexistent

              A `%' character followed by any  other  character
              is   discarded   (but   the  other  character  is
              printed).

              The %m and %d directives support the # , 0 and  +
              flags,  but  the other directives do not, even if
              they print numbers.  Numeric directives  that  do
              not support these flags include G, U, b, D, k and
              n.  The `-' format flag is supported and  changes
              the  alignment  of  a  field from right-justified
              (which is the default) to left-justified.



       -prune If -depth is not given, true; if the  file  is  a
              directory, do not descend into it.
              If -depth is given, false; no effect.


       -quit  Exit immediately.  No child proceses will be left
              running, but no more paths specified on the  com-
              mand  line  will be processed.  For example, find
              /tmp/foo /tmp/bar -print -quit  will  print  only
              /tmp/foo.   Any  command  lines  which  have been
              built up with -execdir ... {} + will  be  invoked
              before  find  exits.   The exit status may or may
              not be zero, depending on whether  an  error  has
              already occurred.


       -ls    True;  list  current file in `ls -dils' format on
              standard output.  The  block  counts  are  of  1K
              blocks,    unless    the   environment   variable
              POSIXLY_CORRECT is set, in  which  case  512-byte
              blocks are used.


   OPERATORS
       Listed in order of decreasing precedence:

       ( expr )
              Force precedence.

       ! expr True if expr is false.

       -not expr
              Same as ! expr, but not POSIX compliant.

       expr1 expr2
              Two  expressions  in a row are taken to be joined
              with an implied "and"; expr2 is not evaluated  if
              expr1 is false.

       expr1 -a expr2
              Same as expr1 expr2.

       expr1 -and expr2
              Same as expr1 expr2, but not POSIX compliant.

       expr1 -o expr2
              Or; expr2 is not evaluated if expr1 is true.

       expr1 -or expr2
              Same  as expr1 -o expr2, but not POSIX compliant.

       expr1 , expr2
              List; both expr1 and expr2 are always  evaluated.
              The value of expr1 is discarded; the value of the
              list is the value of expr2.      The comma opera-
              tor  can be useful for searching for several dif-
              ferent  types  of  thing,  but   traversing   the
              filesystem  hierarchy  only  once.   The -fprintf
              action can be used to list  the  various  matched
              items into several different output files.



STANDARDS CONFORMANCE
       The  following  options are specified in the POSIX stan-
       dard (IEEE Std 1003.1, 2003 Edition):

       -H     This option is supported.

       -L     This option is supported.

       -name  This option is supported, but  POSIX  conformance
              depends  on the POSIX conformance of the system's
              fnmatch(3)  library  function.   As   of   findu-
              tils-4.2.2,  shell  metacharacters  ('*'.  '?' or
              '[]' for  example)  will  match  a  leading  '.',
              because  IEEE  PASC  interpretation  126 requires
              this.   This is a change from  previous  versions
              of findutils.

       -type  Supported.    POSIX specifies `b', `c', `d', `l',
              `p', `f' and `s'.  GNU find  also  supports  `D',
              representing a Door, where the OS provides these.


       -ok    Supported.   Interpretation of  the  response  is
              not locale-dependent (see ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES).


       -newer Supported.  If the file specified is  a  symbolic
              link,  it  is  always  dereferenced.   This  is a
              change from previous  behaviour,  which  used  to
              take  the  relevant  time from the symbolic link;
              see the HISTORY section below.


       Other predicates
              The  predicates  `-atime',  `-ctime',   `-depth',
              `-group',    `-links',    `-mtime',   `-nogroup',
              `-nouser', `-perm', `-print', `-prune',  `-size',
              `-user' and `-xdev', are all supported.


       The  POSIX  standard  specifies  parentheses  `(',  `)',
       negation `!' and the `and'  and  `or'  operators  (`-a',
       `-o').

       All  other options, predicates, expressions and so forth
       are extensions beyond the POSIX standard.  Many of these
       extensions are not unique to GNU find, however.

       The POSIX standard requires that

              The  find  utility  shall  detect infinite loops;
              that is, entering a previously visited  directory
              that is an ancestor of the last file encountered.
              When it detects  an  infinite  loop,  find  shall
              write  a diagnostic message to standard error and
              shall either recover its position in the  hierar-
              chy or terminate.

       The  link  count  of  directories  which contain entries
       which are hard links to an ancestor will often be  lower
       than  they  otherwise should be.  This can mean that GNU
       find will sometimes optimise away the visiting of a sub-
       directory  which  is  actually  a  link  to an ancestor.
       Since find does not actually enter such a  subdirectory,
       it  is  allowed  to avoid emitting a diagnostic message.
       Although this behaviour may be somewhat confusing, it is
       unlikely  that  anybody  actually depends on this behav-
       iour.  If the leaf optimisation has been turned off with
       -noleaf, the directory entry will always be examined and
       the diagnostic message will be issued where it is appro-
       priate.    Symbolic  links  cannot  be  used  to  create
       filesystem cycles as such, but if the -L option  or  the
       -follow option is in use, a diagnostic message is issued
       when find encounters a loop of symbolic links.  As  with
       loops  containing hard links, the leaf optimisation will
       often mean that find knows that it doesn't need to  call
       stat() or chdir() on the symbolic link, so this diagnos-
       tic is frequently not necessary.

       The -d option is supported for comatibility with various
       BSD  systems,  but  you  should  use the POSIX-compliant
       predicate -depth instead.

ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
       LANG   Provides a default value for  the  international-
              ization variables that are unset or null.

       LC_ALL If  set to a non-empty string value, override the
              values  of  all  the  other  internationalization
              variables.

       LC_COLLATE
              The  POSIX  standard specifies that this variable
              affects the pattern matching to be used  for  the
              `-name'  option.    GNU  find uses the fnmatch(3)
              library function, and so support for `LC_COLLATE'
              depends on the system library.

              POSIX  also specifies that the `LC_COLLATE' envi-
              ronment variable affects  the  interpretation  of
              the user's response to the query issued by `-ok',
              but this is not the case for GNU find.

       LC_CTYPE
              This variable affects the treatment of  character
              classes used with the `-name' option, if the sys-
              tem's fnmatch(3) library function supports  this.
              It  has  no  effect on the behaviour of the `-ok'
              expression.

       LC_MESSAGES
              Determines the locale to be used for internation-
              alised messages.

       NLSPATH
              Determines  the location of the internationalisa-
              tion message catalogues.

       PATH   Affects the directores which are searched to find
              the executables invoked by `-exec' and `-ok'.

       POSIXLY_CORRECT
              Determines the block size used by `-ls'.

       TZ     Affects  the time zone used for some of the time-
              related  format   directives   of   -printf   and
              -fprintf.

EXAMPLES
       find /tmp -name core -type f -print | xargs /bin/rm -f

       Find files named core in or below the directory /tmp and
       delete them.  Note that this will  work  incorrectly  if
       there  are  any filenames containing newlines, single or
       double quotes, or spaces.

       find /tmp -name core -type f -print0 | xargs -0  /bin/rm
       -f

       Find files named core in or below the directory /tmp and
       delete them, processing filenames in  such  a  way  that
       file  or  directory  names  containing  single or double
       quotes, spaces or newlines are correctly  handled.   The
       -name test comes before the -type test in order to avoid
       having to call stat(2) on every file.


       find . -type f -exec file '{}' \;

       Runs `file' on every file in or below the current direc-
       tory.   Notice  that  the  braces are enclosed in single
       quote marks to protect them from interpretation as shell
       script  punctuation.    The  semicolon is similarly pro-
       tected by the use of a backslash, though ';' could  have
       been used in that case also.


       find /    ( -perm +4000 -fprintf /root/suid.txt '%#m %u %p\n' ) , \
                 ( -size +100M -fprintf /root/big.txt '%-10s %p\n' )

       Traverse  the filesystem just once, listing setuid files
       and directories into /root/suid.txt and large files into
       /root/big/txt.


       find $HOME -mtime 0

       Search  for files in your home directory which have been
       modified in the last twenty-four  hours.   This  command
       works this way because the time since each file was last
       accessed is divided by 24 hours  and  any  remainder  is
       discarded.   That  means  that to match -atime 0, a file
       will have to have a modification in the  past  which  is
       less than 24 hours ago.



       find . -perm 664

       Search  for  files  which have read and write permission
       for their owner, and group, but which the  rest  of  the
       world can read but not write to.  Files which meet these
       criteria but have other permissions bits set (for  exam-
       ple  if  someone  can  execute  the  file)  will  not be
       matched.


       find . -perm -664

       Search for files which have read  and  write  permission
       for  their  owner,  and group, but which the rest of the
       world can read but not write to, without regard  to  the
       presence  of  any extra permission bits (for example the
       executable bit).  This will match a file which has  mode
       0777, for example.


       find . -perm +222

       Search  for files which are writeable by somebody (their
       owner, or their group, or anybody else).


       find . -perm +022
       find . -perm +g+w,o+w
       find . -perm +g=w,o=w

       All three of these commands do the same thing,  but  the
       first  one  uses  the  octal  representation of the file
       mode, and the other two use the  symbolic  form.   These
       commands  all  search  for  files which are writeable by
       either their owner or their group.  The files don't have
       to  be  writeable  by  both  the  owner  and group to be
       matched; either will do.


       find . -perm -022
       find . -perm -g+w,o+w

       Both these commands do the same thing; search for  files
       which are writeable by both their owner and their group.




EXIT STATUS
       find exits with status 0 if all files are processed suc-
       cessfully,  greater  than  0  if errors occur.   This is
       deliberately a very broad description, but if the return
       value  is  non-zero, you should not rely on the correct-
       ness of the results of find.


SEE ALSO
       locate(1),    locatedb(5),    updatedb(1),     xargs(1),
       fnmatch(3),    regex(7),   stat(2),   lstat(2),   ls(1),
       printf(3), strftime(3), ctime(3), Finding Files (on-line
       in Info, or printed),

HISTORY
       As of findutils-4.2.2, shell metacharacters ('*'. '?' or
       '[]' for example) used in filename patterns will match a
       leading  '.',  because  IEEE  POSIX  interpretation  126
       requires this.


BUGS
       There are security problems inherent  in  the  behaviour
       that the POSIX standard specifies for find, which there-
       fore cannot be fixed.  For example, the -exec action  is
       inherently   insecure,   and  -execdir  should  be  used
       instead.  Please see Finding Files for more information.

       The  best  way  to  report  a  bug is to use the form at
       http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=findutils.  The rea-
       son  for  this  is  that  you will then be able to track
       progress in fixing the problem.   Other  comments  about
       find(1)  and  about the findutils package in general can
       be sent to the bug-findutils mailing list.  To join  the
       list, send email to bug-findutils-request@gnu.org.



                                                        FIND(1)
