UPDATEDB(1)                                         UPDATEDB(1)





NAME
       updatedb - update a file name database

SYNOPSIS
       updatedb [options]

DESCRIPTION
       This  manual page documents the GNU version of updatedb,
       which updates file name databases used  by  GNU  locate.
       The file name databases contain lists of files that were
       in particular directory trees when  the  databases  were
       last  updated.  The file name of the default database is
       determined when locate and updatedb are  configured  and
       installed.   The  frequency with which the databases are
       updated and  the  directories  for  which  they  contain
       entries  depend  on  how often updatedb is run, and with
       which arguments.

       In networked environments, it often makes sense to build
       a  database  at  the root of each filesystem, containing
       the entries for that filesystem.  updatedb is  then  run
       for   each  filesystem  on  the  fileserver  where  that
       filesystem is on a local disk, to prevent thrashing  the
       network.    Users  can  select  which  databases  locate
       searches using an environment variable or  command  line
       option;  see  locate(1).   Databases can not be concate-
       nated together.

       The file name database format changed starting with  GNU
       find and locate version 4.0 to allow machines with diff-
       ent byte orderings to share the databases.  The new  GNU
       locate  can  read both the old and new database formats.
       However, old versions of locate and find produce  incor-
       rect results if given a new-format database.

OPTIONS
       --findoptions='-option1 -option2...'
              Global  options to pass on to find.  The environ-
              ment variable FINDOPTIONS also sets  this  value.
              Default is none.

       --localpaths='path1 path2...'
              Non-network  directories  to put in the database.
              Default is /.

       --netpaths='path1 path2...'
              Network (NFS, AFS, RFS, etc.) directories to  put
              in  the  database.  The environment variable NET-
              PATHS also sets this value.  Default is none.

       --prunepaths='path1 path2...'
              Directories to not put  in  the  database,  which
              would  otherwise  be.   The  environment variable
              PRUNEPATHS also sets this value.  Default is /tmp
              /usr/tmp /var/tmp /afs.

       --prunefs='path...'
              File  systems  to  not put in the database, which
              would otherwise be.  Note that files  are  pruned
              when  a  file  system is reached; Any file system
              mounted under an undesired file  system  will  be
              ignored.   The  environment variable PRUNEFS also
              sets this value.  Default is nfs NFS proc.

       --output=dbfile
              The database file to build.  Default  is  system-
              dependent.   In  Debian GNU/Linux, the default is
              /var/cache/locate/locatedb.

       --localuser=user
              The user to search  non-network  directories  as,
              using  su(1).   Default is to search the non-net-
              work directories as the current  user.   You  can
              also  use  the  environment variable LOCALUSER to
              set this user.

       --netuser=user
              The user to search network directories as,  using
              su(1).   Default is daemon.  You can also use the
              environment variable NETUSER to set this user.

       --old-format
              Create the database in the old format instead  of
              the new one.

       --version
              Print the version number of updatedb and exit.

       --help Print  a  summary  of the options to updatedb and
              exit.

SEE ALSO
       find(1), locate(1), locatedb(5), xargs(1) Finding  Files
       (on-line in Info, or printed)

BUGS
       The  updatedb  program  correctly handles filenames con-
       taining newlines, but only if the system's sort  command
       has a working -z option.  If you suspect that locate may
       need to return filenames containing  newlines,  consider
       using its --null option.

       The  best  way  to  report  a  bug is to use the form at
       http://savannah.gnu.org/bugs/?group=findutils.  The rea-
       son  for  this  is  that  you will then be able to track
       progress in fixing the problem.   Other  comments  about
       updatedb(1)  and  about the findutils package in general
       can be sent to the bug-findutils mailing list.  To  join
       the list, send email to bug-findutils-request@gnu.org.



                                                    UPDATEDB(1)
